# Brainhack

Answering the next generation of open questions in neuroscience will
require very large data sets and complex analytical methods. The
purpose of Brainhack is to bridge the data science and neuroscience
research communities to advance the progress of brain science
research. Brainhack is a unique conference that convenes researchers
from across the globe and myriad disciplines to work together on
innovative projects related to neuroscience. Year after year, global
Brainhack events have brought together researchers to participate in
open collaboration and regional Brainhack events keep the momentum
going throughout the year.

These collaborative workshops combine elements of Hackathons and
Unconferences, with a variety of educational activities, to accelerate
the adaptation of data science and computational methods in
Neuroscience. Much of the conference is allocated to open working time
during which attendees are encouraged to work together in
interdisciplinary teams on projects that utilize computational
techniques to solve problems in neuroscience. Periodic unconference
sessions provide an opportunity for attendees to share their expertise
on topics that become relevant through the course of the event. In
parallel to these activities, an educational track provide hands-on
tutorials on relevant tools such as python, github, cloud computing,
and innovative statistical methods.

## Local events:

- https://school.brainhackmtl.org/

# Neurohackademy

https://neurohackademy.org/

Neurohackademy is a summer school in neuroimaging and data science,
held at the University of Washington eScience Institute.

Participants will learn about technologies used to analyze human
neuroscience data and to make analysis and results shareable and
reproducible.

The first week is devoted to hands-on lectures and open Q&A
discussions. The second week of the course is devoted to
participant-directed activities: breakout sessions and collaboration
sessions on topics of interest.

# Neuromatch Academy

We provide research education and training in computational
neuroscience that is crucial for success in both academia and
industry. We do this through live courses, interactive projects,
professional development, networking, and research experiences in an
inclusive, supportive, all-online, environment.

In the academy, we help participants to collaborate with a global
community of experts and peers, hone their problem-solving skills, and
build a supportive network that celebrates inclusivity and
accessibility in science education.

Neuromatch Academy is a volunteer-led organization, run by
computational neuroscientist enthusiasts from all over the world.
From students to faculty to industry professionals, our volunteers are
invested in creating globally-accessible science education and
building inclusive communities for scientists to learn, grow, network,
and discover

Coursed include:

## Computational Neuroscience:

Learn computational neuroscience techniques and methods in a live
instruction hands-on classroom.

We cover cutting-edge advances in machine learning and causality
research with state-of-the-art modeling approaches in neuroscience
with a focus on interpretability and the process of modeling.

## NeuroAI

In this intensive, graduate-level course for students with both AI and
computational neuroscience experience, you’ll learn about how
intelligent systems generalize. By applying principles from
computational neuroscience, AI research, and cognitive neuroscience,
this course will explore the fundamental nature of natural and
artificial intelligence.

# MILA

https://mila.quebec/en

Mila is one of the world’s largest academic research institutes
dedicated to deep learning. For years, its professors and students
have been pushing the boundaries of artificial intelligence (AI)
research across Canada and around the world.

As a leading AI research institute, Mila collaborates with Canadian
universities, industry partners, international organizations and
governments, putting AI at the service of society while also
contributing to Canada’s vibrant AI ecosystem.

Drawing upon the skills and knowledge of more than 1,200 researchers,
Mila is responsibly bridging the gap between state-of-the-art Al and
human intelligence, particularly in relation to reasoning, robustness
and other cognitive abilities still lacking in Al.

At Mila, students and world-renowned professors are pursuing
groundbreaking work on both the foundational aspects of machine
learning and many innovative algorithms. Each year, hundreds of Mila’s
peer-reviewed scientific papers are presented at major AI conferences,
including ICLR, ICML and NeurIPS.

Mila published many of the early papers on deep learning, including
the introduction of word embeddings in neural language models;
denoising auto-encoders; deep nets with ReLUs instead of sigmoids or
tanh; self-attention and the resulting machine translation and NLP
revolution; GANs, etc. Mila is also responsible for a popular textbook
on deep learning (MIT Press, 2016), and co-created the International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).

The institute has been a hothouse for the development of deep
reinforcement learning, and the theoretical foundations of deep
learning, including why it works, optimization methods and analysis,
generalization principles, in- and out-of-distribution data
processing, causality, and generative and probabilistic methods.

Mila has developed expertise at the intersection of theoretical
neuroscience and deep learning (NeuroAI), as well as in many areas of
applied machine learning that focus on AI for social good. Computer
vision, NLP and robotics, and applications in health care such as
medical imaging and drug discovery have all been front and centre. So,
too, has the environment, through Mila's co-founding of the Climate
Change AI organization. In addition, Mila has chosen to focus on
AI4Science to support modelling and discovery in physics, chemistry
and biology, and works actively within the social sciences — fighting
sexual exploitation and modern slavery, while also contributing to the
legal and philosophical aspects of responsible and safe AI.

##  Available Tools

https://mila.quebec/en/research/open-source-software

#  Center for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning - CAMIL

https://www.camil-research.pl/

CAMIL is a center of excellence in Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning, gathering researchers and practitioners with comprehensive
experience, ranging from knowledge discovery to semantic web to
computer vision. CAMIL members have made internationally recognized
contributions in fundamental research in AI and ML, and applied their
expertise in numerous practical contexts, including medicine, biology,
finance, and industry. CAMIL’s mission is to draw together the
competences of its members and serve as a hub for channeling their
combined activities. CAMIL is a member of Confederation of
Laboratories for Artificial Intelligence Research in Europe (CLAIRE)
and the TAILOR network – Foundations of Trustworthy AI – Integrating
Learning, Optimization and Reasoning.
